Code for "Mutualisms alter the realized niches of legumes at a global scale". Not all data files are uploaded, as some are too big for GitHub, but scripts to download them are reproduced below. Email erinmchugh94@gmail.com with questions. 

## code

Directory **code** houses all scripts to recreate these analyses.

Scripts 1-3 work with occurrence level data, which is large, and generate a large output file of thinned occurrences.

Script 4 gets Plants of the World Online polygons, classified as native or introduced, to classify each occurrence point as in the native range, the introduced range, or unclassified (NA).

Script 5 generates a phylogeny for species in this dataset.

Scripts 6 updates the original legume trait dataset with the most recent EFN trait data from the World List of Plants with Extrafloral Nectaries (current through 25 April 2026).

Scripts 7 and 8 summarize across all occurrences to estimate niche breadth of temperature, precipitation, and nitrogen niche axes, and fit PGLS models. 

Script 9 models niche maximums and minimums.

Script 10 analyzes native and introduced niche breadth separately.

Scripts for Figure_1, Figure_2, Figure_3 make the corresponding figures for the main text, while scripts Figure_S1, Figure_S2, and Figure_S3 make the supplemental figures. 

## data

Directory **data** contains:

Original data on mutualism from Simonsen et al. 2017 (legume_range_traits.csv).

Data from the World List of Plants with Extrafloral Nectaries (current through 25 April 2026).

Intermediate data files generated by the code.

## data_large

Directory **data_large** has data at the occurrence level (e.g., many rows per species). This directory should be populated with the following which can be freely downloaded and/or generated with scripts 1-4 (and beyond):

- original GBIF download "0008106-240229165702484.csv" (can be downloaded using key in script 1)
- bioclim 1 and 12 30s rasters (can be downloaded here https://www.worldclim.org/data/worldclim21.html)
- wwf biome data (can be downloaded here https://files.worldwildlife.org/wwfcmsprod/files/Publication/file/6kcchn7e3u_official_teow.zip)
- data from the workd checklist of vascular plants: wcvp_dwca and Special_Issue_... (available here https://sftp.kew.org/pub/data-repositories/WCVP)
- level 3 global polygons (from https://github.com/tdwg/wgsrpd/blob/master/geojson/level3.geojson)
- filtered plants of the world online shapefile (generated by script 4)
- output from coordinate cleaner "allocc_clean.csv" (generated by script 2 using gbif download as input)
- output from thinning step "allocc_thinned.csv" (generated by script 3 using script 2 output as input)
- all occurrences with environmental data "allocc_with_env.csv" (generated by script 7 using script 3 output as input)
- all occurrences with environmental data and points classified as native/introduced "allocc_with_native_status.csv" (generated by script 8 using script 7 output as input)

## figures 

Directory **figures** contains figures for the manuscript, generated by scripts Figure_1, Figure_2, Figure_3, Figure_S1, Figure_S2, and Figure_S3.

## model_fits

Directory **model_fits** contains .rds files for each PGLS model fit, generated by scripts 7-10.

## phylogeny

Directory **phylogeny** contains tree files, generated by script 5.

## species_lists

Directory **species_lists** contains some intermediate species lists for examination and troubleshooting. 

## tables

Directory **tables** contains .csv files of PGLS outputs.









